The Joe Rogan experience .
And the Taliban have taken over Afghanistan. That's.
One looks.
Weird. Um.
I see the people falling from the plane. I did.
That's wild. It's it's weird.
It's rushing the plane,
trying to get on board and trying to get rescued and taken out of the country.
It's so odd. You know, I was having a conversation with, um, with friends just,
just yesterday. And I was saying, I literally had forgotten, like I was like,
why, why was the U S in Afghanistan again? Like it had been so long.
I was literally trying to remember what the initial reason for going in there
was, but I mean, I'm no foreign policy expert and not going to pretend to be,
but it seems very obvious that the way they withdrew
was crazy and leaving all the,
leaving all the weapons and ammunition and vehicles and stuff like that for the
Taliban to just come and scoop up.
If one was a legit conspiracy theorist,
like a real tinfoil Hatter, you would look at this and go,
this is probably the best way to ensure the support
of a re-invigoration like leave a bunch of weapons behind,
make the whole thing disastrous,
have the Taliban take over the entire country in a short period of time,
start executing women,
mayors do all the crazy that they're probably going to do. And then,
you know, have some real public outcry.
So had people,
are I still get people who are confused as to why I do not generally trust the
government.
And I don't know how many examples I need to pull out from recent times.
And from further history to just feel like you look,
whether whether this is malice or it's incompetence
or, um, with some things that doesn't matter. All right.
Whether it's malice.
Competence and competence in.
Anything, but how can with certain things, I'm like, how, how can it be like,
it's so obvious, right?
It's so obvious what is going to happen in a certain situation.
And then you do it anyway. And I don't,
I don't understand that one person can be in competent, but it's like,
it's not just one person who makes all these ideas.
They've got actual people who are supposed to be experts and advisors,
et cetera. I mean,
you even had people in the media last last month and the media is pretty
friendly towards Joe Biden here for the most part.
And people in the media are saying, Hey, if you do this,
aren't the Taliban going to just take over everything? There's no.
No, no. There's three RS thousand Afghanistan,
armed soldiers and only 75,000 Taliban.
Meanwhile, they took it over and they just did it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
there was no gunshots fired it's no, I, I just,
I just think the whole thing's a disaster. The whole,
this nation building ideas of disaster and Afghanistan itself has never been a
traditional country in the sense of like a central leadership. It's like,
it's basically for most of history has been run by a warlords
warlords, that controlled regions.
Here's a question, Joe,
this is something I wonder about a lot,
both on an individual level and on an, on a nation level,
how much,
and at what point should say a country
get involved with the affairs of another one where.
That's a good question. Well, it's,
it should be probably at a L w we should have levels of
atrocity that are intolerable, right?
Where it's like Nazi Germany type levels. But if that's the case,
why aren't we not invading North Korea?
Because North Korea talked to why Nomi park or any of the people that have
escaped form from North Korea,
it's essentially a form of Holocaust.
There's people that are in concentration camps.
They've lived their whole lives there.
Their children will be born there there's people that are starving to death.
There's people that are cannibalizing people. It's a weird,
up horrific situation over there. Yeah. And, uh,
there's no,
there's no plan to do anything about it. Yeah.
But yet we keep talking about doing things in the middle east,
and there's a lot of resources in the middle east that may or may not
be a motive to being there. One of them is drugs.
It's a up until the invasion of Afghanistan. I mean,
I'm not sure what the number is now, but Afghanistan, once we invaded,
I think they were the supplier of 94% of the
world's opium. Oh, I didn't know that. Oh yeah. I didn't know that. Well,
the United States troops are guarding poppy fields because these
people that were there,
that was their main way of making a living and the us
troops were guarding the poppy fields. It's crazy. Let's,
let's, let's find out what the actual number is as of today.
But I believe that I think that was the number at one point in time that
94% of the world's opium supply was from Afghanistan
specifically. Wow.
This is also a massive supply of minerals of
conflict minerals. Ironically, in 2014,
the estimated opium production was 6,400. What is an empty,
uh, yet in 2070 production climb to a new record of 9,000 empty
Bubba, Bubba, as a result of a drought,
these levels of production are enough to supply most of the world's opiate
markets. Wow.
So study from the Brookings brookings.edu.
Oh, metric tons. That's what it is. Okay.
The 2007 Afghan opium production climb to what was then seen as a
staggering 8,200 metric tons, uh,
interesting. In 2018,
climb to new record of a 9,000 metric tons and falling in 2018,
6,400 metric tons, massive amounts of opium. Wow.
Yeah, this is what's crazy. Um, the, the, uh, trafficking.
Okay. Well, here it is estimated the gross value of the Afghan opiate economy,
including the cultivation of poppy processing into heroin and trafficking up
to Afghan borders to be between us
4.1 billion and 6.6 billion in
2017.
Wow. It's so funny. Seeing those numbers,
they are compared to like these trillions and trillions that they just keep
printing. Sounds like nothing.
I don't even know how these numbers are just getting to a stage.
We can't find them.
It's just like too many zeros. Yeah. It's it's also like,
where's that money going? Like if that's,
if they're making that much money selling heroin, where's it going?
Who's getting it. Who's selling it. Where's it going?
How's it getting out of the country? Are you guys watching it? Watch the fields,
keep an eye on it.
I have no idea, man. The world is such a weird place and always has been,
I did listen to the podcast you did with them. Y'all may park,
which was amazing. Amazing by the way. Um,
and wild North Korea is it blows my mind that here in
2021, with everything, you know, we're doing and whatever,
that there's just one country out there that we know
almost nothing about. It's just blacked out,
totally disconnected from the world. Virtually everyone. No,
one's met anyone from there virtually. No one's been there.
Even if you've been there,
you can only go on like a guided tour to like one small part of it.
It amazes me that that's a thing. I always just think like,
how is that possible? Given how interconnected we all?
And she was saying that if it wasn't for China's support,
they wouldn't be able to survive a week. Yeah. Would be like China.
They need China support. And that's the reason trying to prop them up.
It's so weird. How do you think that, um,
how do you think that that will come to an end?
Am I not? Am I going for hundreds of years?
I think it will. I think evil always evil, always falls, eventually it.
But what is eventually, if a human lifetime is, you know,
if a hundred years of you're lucky there's has been many evil regimes have
lasted longer than that. So I mean, many, many,
many generations of people are going to suffer. Yeah.
It's so odd.
That they can't do anything about it. The thing is like they're starving.
They have no access to weapons. The government has full,
complete control of them. And when you pass the borders,
they have landmine set up. So if you're, you're making a run for it,
you're gonna blow up.
And what's, do you know what what's China's interest with
keeping or allowing it to stay that way? Is there some benefits to them?
That's a good question.
Because I know that I know that they're propped up by China, but what,
why would China wants, you know, why,
why would they want it to S to stay like that? I don't really understand that.
Well,
they probably enjoy the fact that there's a conflict between north and South
Korea, as they're both close to each other.
And South Korea is allies with the United States. You know,
China has their tentacles in so many different things, man. It's why.
I've got some more numbers here for you to help with the Afghan thing.
It was from Wiki, but from the Afghan papers,
I think is where a lot of this information came from.
As of 2017 opium production provides about 400,000
jobs in Afghanistan, more than the Afghan national security forces,
the opium trade spiked in 2006,
after the Taliban lost control of the local warlords.
93%.
93% Of the non-pharmaceutical grade
opiates of the world market originated in Afghanistan.
Or land is used in, uh,
Afghanistan to grow for opium than Coco cultivation in all of Latin America.
Wow.
Uh, I did not know this. I I'd never linked Afghanistan with huge amounts of.
Yeah, man, it's in a sturgeon Simpson song. I mean,
we are, we're repeating what happened in the Vietnam war, right.
And the Vietnam war.
That was a big part of what the Vietnam war was all about was the heroin trade.
This is what's going on here, man. Yeah. It's like, it's,
it's gotta be a factor.
This idea that it's not a factor of why we're there and that some
scumbag is not profiting off of this, for sure. It is.
There's no way they're not. I mean,
if these are the same people that paid Barry seals to run Coke over from south
America and drop it into MENA Arkansas,
you don't think that they would be making money over in Afghanistan. I.
Do, man. I, I believe that every, every government is.
Corrupt.
They're going to make a documentary about the poppies that they're going to have
to someone now that we're out of Afghanistan,
someone is going to make a documentary about the heroin trade and people are
gonna blow their wig off. They're going to be like what?
Watch the entire episode for free only on Spotify.